[Music]
like if you're trying to get as smart as
possible you want to be able to make the
best predictions but what will happen
and one of the things that will act
is you so yeah I think there is
something there which is intelligence
and self-awareness to me seem like they
have to go together welcome to the art
of accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease I'm Brett
Kistler here today with my co-host Joe
Hudson
thank you
all right everybody I'm really excited
about our guest today uh today we're
speaking with Sam Altman Sam is the CEO
of openai and he's the former president
of Y combinator how are you doing today
Sam doing really well thanks for having
me yeah awesome I'm really excited to
talk to you just because it seems like
what you're doing and what we're doing
is somewhat parallel in that you're
working to make sure that the AI that we
create and make self-aware is aligned
with human values and what we're doing
is just making sure that humans are
aligned with human values and
discovering how to discover what those
even are so I really I really am excited
for this conversation awesome me too so
Sam I'd love to dive into something that
you learned about yourself over the
course of your life that really just
changed your world and changed the way
that you operate in business and the way
that you think about Ai and about your
life I think there's like a bunch of
interesting things I could I could pick
here uh it's a it's a fun question but
the one that resonates me with the most
uh and it wasn't intentional at the time
but it became intentional during the
process uh was becoming a calm person
I think I started off my career in life
as a a very like anxious high-strung
person much more than I realized and I
think it was uh a negative in in many
ways the obvious ones about being sort
of just generally kind of unhappy and uh
you know somewhat miserable um
and also just work wise like
tremendously less effective uh and a
much worse leader and then through a
conscious effort eventually what started
off is just like interest mostly in
exploring meditation
um and sort of introspection about why I
was the way I was and sort of why I why
I was like so sort of high strung and
just wound up in a you know unproductive
and on way it started I guess as trying
to explore why this was like in the way
of my productivity and then it became
why I was in the way of my happiness
that process I think made me just much
uh better at my job in addition to much
happier in my life I think one of the
things anyone learns running the company
is there are a lot of crises all of the
time and you can get through them uh you
do get through them but uh to this
degree you kind of believe you're going
to get through them even if you don't
see exactly how uh you get through them
much more more effectively and also you
really have an effect on how other
people that work with you when they look
to you for guidance and and sort of
culture setting and how they should
react it really changes how they should
react and and basically like
the situations that don't benefit from
calmness and sort of thought and sort of
appropriate perspective before action
are very few and far between
and so I think the steadiness that
brings to to work leads to the ability
to uh get to much better answers on much
harder problems it's also just like a
much more pleasant way to live how did
you recognize that this was a that this
was a blocker for you both in business
and also just in your personal
subjective experience yeah as I
mentioned it started off with this like
thing of like I can kind of like tell
this is in the way of my productivity
which I think says also something about
my mindset at the time but it it then
very quickly became uh sort of just this
like inner exploration and realized that
it was something that seemed obviously
better to me seemed cultivatable and
thing that I obviously wanted so the
idea that it that it was messing with
your productivity that the anxiety was
messing with your productivity or the
anxiousness like how did you see that
what was exactly the the things that you
saw that you were doing that were that
you saw oh wow this is not productive
for people who might not know that this
is getting in the way of their
productivity how could they recognize it
a common thing that I've heard and that
I did my myself is that like
every day I would come to work
in some sort of a panic I would think we
were doing the wrong things I would have
like totally new priorities that I
thought we need to go after and I'd get
like really convinced to like all right
if we just go do this one thing like
everything will be much better and we've
gotta like totally like reorient the
whole thing now and you know I have this
like big new strategy and this big new
thing and you know everything I thought
like yesterday was bad and I'm like
you know we've got to like do this
immediately that was one way in which it
happened and I think like I've heard a
lot of other people tell similar stories
where you're just you sort of feel like
very reactive and all over the place
another one and this was like
15 years ago now but I still remember it
like you know like watching a movie I
had been negotiating this deal I was
like not going that well it was like it
was pretty important
um and it was like you know under
extreme time pressure and down to the
wire
I remember at one point uh just like
feeling like I was gonna like explode
from the stress about it and I lived in
this little like Studio house in
Mountain View at the time and it was
like a summer day and it was probably
like there's no air conditioning
probably like 95 degrees inside and I
was like just in gym shorts uh it was on
a weekend and I was like so stressed
that I was just like laying on the
ground with my arms out to the side and
like trying to breathe and like feeling
like I was just like
you know gonna explode and it was this
terrible feeling
and I realized that like hey I just
didn't want to be doing this and also me
feeling this way
um was not helping in any way it was not
making the deal any more likely to
happen clearly only less
um it was making me want to like quit
and not do this anymore and I was like
subjecting myself to this thing because
it's how I thought I was like supposed
to be feeling when it was like just
strictly bad there was no benefit at all
um and that was a moment for me where I
was like
there has got to be a better way this
doesn't feel to me like the right way to
be doing things I heard you say there
that the that the feelings that you had
there were strictly bad and I'm curious
what were they trying to tell you if if
anything that you needed to hear to
approach the deal in a way that was
healthy for you the thing that I would
say now is that you know you when people
like you sort of say you need to like be
detached it doesn't mean you don't care
it means that you do kind of whatever
you can you can control what you can
control and then beyond that the outcome
is going to be what the outcome is and
you kind of realize there are some
things out of your control but also like
in the long Arc of a company
if you get the inputs right
the dice rolls don't always go your way
but the outputs eventually come if you
just really focus on doing what you can
do and being detached from the outcome
in any specific case uh eventually you
got to the right the right outputs but
but if you
don't focus on what you can do
um you end up I think sort of like
yeah in that moment sort of the way I
was acting and responding and feeling uh
that did not help me clearly figure out
what to do that did not help me think
about better ideas that certainly did
not instill any confidence in our
counterparty yeah I heard you mentioned
just there that uh that piece about
Detachment to the outcome and something
that that we talk a lot about in this
work is impartiality and I'm curious
what the difference there is between
being detached to the outcome and
somewhat dissociated from it but then on
the other hand or on the on the other
side of that actually really caring
about the outcome but also accepting
whichever way it might go and also
trusting yourself to navigate however
that that might flow I don't think I
have a magic answer there other than it
it sort of like came to me over time and
now I both like
really care and feel quite detached
and I also trust that uh
you know it'll all somehow eventually
work out even though the luck multiplier
in any given moment is big I think
there's like a lot of introspection work
that comes there but I also think that
just seeing that work enough times over
the course of the career is the best way
to really internalize it and learn it
and these things that just seem like you
know company ending crises don't end the
company or even if they do you get to go
start another thing and eventually you
realize like huh I went through all of
that pain and suffering and I didn't
need to and here we are and you know
probably at only like hurt
hurt the eventual progress right yeah in
my experience the things that I've
considered to be a company ending crisis
tend to become more likely to end the
company the more I believe that there's
something there for sure so tell me a
little bit about how after this moment
when you you had this this moment where
you're just lying on the ground and you
could barely breathe and you just had
all of this all this sensation all this
emotion and you were clearly not
operating in a way that was effective
and you recognize that something needed
to shift and that there was a change of
strategy that was called for how did you
then approach and find your way towards
this introspection and deeper
self-awareness that you're the path that
you're on now yeah I mean that was like
an awareness that somebody needed to
change but for anything to start
changing unfortunately it took quite a
long time after that
um but that was a moment where I was uh
there were many moments where you
realize something needs to change but
that was a moment where it was very
clear that something really needed to
change because that was just sort of no
way to live and also no way to be to be
productive
I was like a very dismissive person of
anything that had any I've done a total
180 on this but any if someone was like
you just need to go meditate more
I would basically be like well you
like I'm really busy and like that's a
dumb thing and you don't get it you know
I would say that about like lots of
other things as well but then I think
like you know at some point I was like
okay I'll give this a try I think it was
years later from that moment but then
man it really changed things quickly and
then this thing that I had sort of done
because I thought it would make me more
productive I realized I just wanted to
be happier and there were like a number
of things meditation was probably the
most valuable to me but particular forms
of it but but a lot of other work that
also helped and then I realized that uh
just in the spirit of trying to of like
wanting to be happier uh it also had
like comfortable Circle and sort of made
me
not more productive in terms of like
volume of work I do but certainly on
better inputs and less better outputs
you were talking about different
modalities of meditation there and that
there's an arc of meditation
you've been meditating sounds like
something like 10 12 years now or
something to that effect how can you
describe the difference in your approach
to meditation when you started in the
middle and the end what how is your
attitude towards and your approach
changed if at all it started with sort
of more
guided meditations uh or sort of
meditations that were focused on
awareness or calmness the
transformational part for me was getting
to unstructured meditation sitting for
an hour with your eyes closed and making
no effort towards anything and the arc
on that for most people starts as you
know some version of cell therapy with
your eyes shut for a while and then you
kind of work through that backlog and it
it changes to something else
but I certainly changed a lot out of
that it sounds like to some degree that
that same
um impartiality or Detachment of
business results also happened
internally meaning that like now you can
just be with yourself with whatever
showed up instead of trying to manage
yourself into a state for sure for sure
and and like eventually the stuff's you
know kind of stopped showing up or at
least shows up much much less
um yeah I think like this is a at least
for me this was like a long path of
meditation uh it was not the shortcut
path the shortcut path at least in most
of Silicon Valley is plant medicine
which I think is great too but uh I
think there's really something to take
in the long path in letting this process
play out over over years that I
encourage people to give consideration
to yeah absolutely I've been in my
experience with plant medicine is you
you can often get to places with it that
are hard to then re-access when you're
not on any kind of medicine and to be in
a process where you learn to let your
system process information Straight From
the Source straight from your sensory
experience
uh without any alternates then it's
available to you all the time and not
just on weekends yeah I mean look I I
think it's this is all worth exploring
it's all great but but the the kind of
the long path or the hard path I think
is also really really worth
consideration along those lines then how
has your relationship to meditation
changed and what are some of the points
that you experienced along the path
where you recognized a different and
more effective way to be meditating how
does that relate to the way that you
relate to it now I definitely didn't go
into meditation saying like what I want
is calmness
um you know I maybe would have said like
what I want is to figure out if there's
like anything here if all these people
saying this is like a good thing to try
just don't get it or probably even more
I would have said like
I would like to be less unhappy that
probably would have resonated
and it was like very strange how much
stuff started changing how little I
could like kind of predict where
it would it would go and then
um
you know I think like the first moments
that anyone gets to a meditation where
you like really deeply feel you know
you've like read about people's
descriptions of non-duality it always
sort of sounded like vague or kind of
like and you really deeply feel
it that's always for everyone I've
talked to it's like a pretty like
profound moment of of interchange uh and
I think when you get there then at least
for me a lot of external things change
pretty quickly and
uh so for me it was sort of like
this sort of slow build and then a lot
of stuff changed pretty quickly uh and
then I actually to be honest I don't
meditate as much anymore like I used to
do it a lot uh and I still do it now
just out of enjoyment or
Nostalgia or something but it's uh you
know it's definitely in a different
phase now what are the things that
change when that threshold got hit what
are the things that you saw that
shifted
it's gonna be external world I guess
there's just this sense that like
none of this really matters that much
and so I'm gonna have a very different
relationship to how I
you know interact with all of it and
also there's sort of this Clarity on so
that's like one vector of it and there's
also this sort of like Clarity of here
all the things I'm doing that are
actually causing all the things I don't
want and I I sort of now can see those
as a very detached Observer and actually
if I want to stop that stuff I'm now
able to do so yeah it sounds like sounds
like what you're describing there is
that
through the practice of meditation
you've made it so that you can in real
time process
your inputs uh if I cleaned up cleaned
up the inputs of your sensory system and
you're letting all that information in
in a more real time without having to go
sit on a cushion and meditate because it
just happens throughout the day and
meditation is now something that you do
for enjoyment
and not necessarily something you need
to do
because you're just more emotionally
fluid in general does that sound
accurate yeah roughly what's inaccurate
about it what's the what's the piece
that's missing or that is a bad
description I mean there are people who
say like oh I don't need to meditate
anymore because now I feel like I'm just
meditating all the time I certainly
haven't had that experience there's
something about you know sitting for a
long period of time that is still really
different and
not something that I experience sort of
in day-to-day life but but the sort of
like
the ability to sort of observe the world
and myself as sort of a more in a more
detached way that's
that's definitely stuck so one of the
things that I hear people talk about
when they when they get to that place
um is that they start worrying that they
don't care or that they that they like
they feel like it's listless or they
feel like
like they don't have the passion anymore
because they're associating with the
kind of non-personal nature what do you
what would you say to those people I
definitely worried about that happening
to me I didn't want that to happen you
know in the spirit of full transparency
I know some people who that has happened
to yeah but it certainly didn't happen
to me
um it made me
care more about work uh it made me more
productive
um sort of took on a different valence
like what I wanted to work on what I
what I cared about
there's a bunch of stuff that I didn't
even realize how much I cared about that
I just really stopped caring about and
there were some new things I really
started caring about so there were
changes for sure one of the things I
realized actually early on during
meditation was like just how much I
cared what other people thought about me
um which was a hugely limiting thing for
me work-wise and that was actually of
course I still care somewhat but that
was like a relatively quick thing to to
drop
and that was like a very freeing thing
in terms of going to work on things that
weren't going to seem cool or at least
weren't going to seem cool for a long
time and
so it like it changed what I cared about
uh but in ways that I I have felt happy
about there's definitely like weird
that happens to you during like intense
and prolonged meditation and so there
were probably moments where I was like
oh wow like I'm just totally like
you know on this like that shouldn't be
working at all or whatever but but none
of that stuck yeah that's what I often
see in people is that their listlessness
or the lack of passion
is
when they're looking at the parts of
themselves that no longer want to exist
and and then when they find the parts of
themselves that are ready to emerge and
evolve that the passion is always right
there
but obviously the longer they stay in
that fear the harder it is to find the
thing that does move them now yeah I
mean obviously a diminished like when
you're on the front side of it like this
idea that your sense of self is going to
diminish maybe diminish a lot is like a
scary thought and people are like well
what's that going to do to my motivation
and everything else and you know like
everyone I know almost everyone who
meditates a lot does have some degree of
sense of self-diminishing often a lot
and yet they like still do whatever they
were doing they still often do whatever
they were doing before or or some you
know adapted and maybe better version of
it yeah when you look back at your
resistance to meditation what is it that
you think you are actually resisting uh
I think it was that like I felt like it
was a waste of time in this sort of like
hippie like feelings I just
didn't want to entertain so when you
look back at it the resistance was the
same as what you thought it was at that
time yeah gotcha how do you relate your
experience in meditation and feelings in
general and the way that that process is
through to create your experience and
drive your decision making how do you
relate that to the work that you're
doing at open Ai and the way that you
understand intelligence in general I
mean I think for most kinds of work but
certainly like very uncertain
scientific work that often feels high
stakes and that that brings up a lot of
emotions for people the ability to sort
of like
stay calm and centered during hard and
stressful moments and to make decisions
over that are where you're not too
reactive but sort of sticking to
long-term principles
I think that's really important and I
think
in this field in particular
unfortunately some of the communities
that have been most involved in AI
safety I think are the people that are
the least calm and I think that's like a
sort of dangerous situation if you have
some of the people
who have
historically been most active thinking
and talking about AI safety actually
build AGI and be responsible for its
safety I think that would be quite bad
because it's it's an extremely high
strung Community with some peculiarities
and I remember observing that like one
thing I could bring to this is the
opposite of whatever that Community has
so there's a principle that I see a lot
which is the thing that we uh are scared
of is the thing that we attract
and it sounds like that's at least in
part of the way that you're seeing this
is that these very high strung very
scared people are the ones to protect
us from it that there also might be
attracting the thing that they're trying
to avoid yeah I think that would be
quite bad I could see fear justifying a
lot of the arms racy type things that
occur in the field yeah I mean that that
could happen for sure but I think
there's like a whole bunch of other
worse things that that could happen too
there's this great short story about AI
called The Gentle seduction and and
there was there's a line in there that
I'm going to misquote but it's something
like you know only the only the worlds
are only the people who sort of like
knew like Prudence without fear made it
through and I think that's it's not
that's not quite the sense but it's
something like that
um maybe it was like new caution without
fear but like that's basically what I
think it's going to take to build
to sort of like get through this uh very
wild and complex transition we're going
through and if you sort of like create
the descendants of humanity from a place
of like deep fear and panic and anxiety
uh that seems to me like you're likely
to make some very bad choices or
certainly reflect
not reflect the best of humanity in that
neurologically speaking we make
decisions emotionally meaning if we take
the emotional center of our brain we
stop we cease to be able to make
decisions even if our IQ and our IQ
would stay the same also if you look at
I'm always pronounced his name drug
girdle I think some people pronounce him
but you know he talks about the
limitations of logic through the
mathematical and completeness Theorem
so as you're building artificial
intelligence and if you kind of see that
the postulates that we're working on and
the way our intelligence works is
through emotions
how do you how does that translate into
AI how does that how do emotions
translate into agif at all
as the Thruster I mean first of all I
think it's like important to stay quite
humble here and realize that although it
does appear now that we know how to
build intelligence we may be building a
very alien intelligence
we don't quite know how it's going to
work or how it works and it's possible
uh that that we build something that
just works
you know that can still solve problems
and can still understand and learn but
just does so in such a different way
than we do that if we try to
project our own experience of deeply
emotional decision making that's just
wrong or that just won't work
but I think it's also possible that a
lot of those things that we experience
as emotions as we make depending on how
we train the system a lot of those ideas
of things like emotions are going to
appear in artificial neural networks as
well there's certainly no reason why it
couldn't
you know people say like oh we're not
going to have that because you can't
have you know hormones can't act on
artificial neural networks and it's like
of course you can model that it's like
this is clearly possible it's just we
haven't done it yet and it could also
just emerge entirely in the neural
network without us ever doing anything
actively there there could be something
very deeply inherent about creativity or
social dynamics or whatever where that's
that's unavoidable
so I think the honest answer is we don't
know
and and we need to be open to it doesn't
happen at all or it happens in a very
deep way the follow-up question is if
it's a weird one but if you could push a
button and the button was basically
fear is something that AI gets to
experience would you push the button of
course okay and what makes that so and
and I say that because obviously moving
out of anxiety has been an incredibly
important thing to you so you see some
wisdom in the fear so what creates that
I think fear is an important emotion I
think fear underlies
certainly not all emotions but but quite
a lot of them and I think it there's
like often a very important signal there
I think it evolved for a reason I don't
think we would have made it through or
to where we are without that
yeah I think it's like it's an important
part of sort of the full experience of
life and it's also like you know it's
like a useful signal for Learning and
staying alive and all that yeah I think
there's something really interesting
about how often the framing around the
AI is that emotions are a human thing
and then AI is a logical thing and even
even that like that that piece about
fear and the endocrine system you know
the distribution of corticoid receptors
in your body is trained by your
experience and determines your bodily
response to a fearful stimulus and how
could that not be part of a learned
system that may not be neural in nature
but is part of your overall system
I'm curious curious what you think about
that and how emotions do actually play
into play into creating the context in
which our decisions are even made and
you know proposals for actions are even
thought from yeah I mean look as Joe
said we clearly make decisions
emotionally and then you know justify
them with an intellect later again just
to repeat it I think we need to be very
open-minded to the fact that
the digital intelligence we build is
just going to be super alien and maybe
it won't be maybe like there's something
so fundamental about the relationship
between fear and intelligence which I
could totally believe that building any
sort of agi-like system necessarily has
the ability to experience fear but also
maybe not one thing that I think we will
find is that biological intelligence
is just incredibly limited uh relative
to what we're capable of producing
what's the biggest example of something
you've learned about yourself
by understanding AI
as you built this thing it's like if I
write what I mean to say is like I if I
write
um
something on fear I'm going to learn
something about fear by writing on it
you're building AI attempting to build
AGI what is it teaching you about
yourself
or about Humanity we talked a little bit
earlier about this idea of you know how
when you meditate like your sense of
self recedes but one of the things that
I and I've heard a lot of other people
describe this in different ways are
sometimes the same one that working on
AI really like makes you think about all
of the kind of like old deep
philosophical questions not all but many
of them come up a lot in this context of
like what's going to happen when I get
uploaded what's gonna happen when
there's copies made of me do I want to
merge do I want to go off exploring the
universe like will that still be me like
how much of me will that be how like one
of the things that I think
was like an interesting continuation of
meditation was this like very deep felt
sense that there is no self that I can
still find to identify with in any way
at all
and I've heard a lot of other people who
have spent a lot of time thinking about
AGI
get to that in a different way too it
reminds me of the the the Moon
um
there's a phenomenon that happens with
people who go up into space astronauts
uh I don't know if it's still happening
but when they go and they look at the
Earth from a distance and they look at
the Moon from the New Perspective that
they have the same thing happen where
kind of the sense of self uh changes and
and one of the I think I'm trying to
remember the name of but there's this
whole Institute in Petaluma California
that was all built around this man's
experiences astronauts experience of
seeing that and then building a center
to promote it in the world it seems like
it's got a similar phenomenon yeah but I
think really having to contemplate these
questions of like what it means to
you know get uploaded or merged or
whatever like leads people down an
interesting path and certainly the more
you work on AI the more you think about
that in many or at least for me it seems
to me like something that I mentioned
earlier on the podcast how there seems
to be this parallelism between Ai and
self-awareness and meditation it seems
like the sense of self itself is a
specialized form of intelligence that is
trained on a certain subset of our
history and this is particularly visible
in something like a trauma where you
recognize a couple features in your
environment and then you collapse your
entire world to what your environment
was like at the time that that trauma
was programmed and that the process of
feeling through and healing our traumas
and integrating those experiences as
well as the process of meditating and
just feeling past our sense of identity
into the rest of what we are actually is
a way of increasing our general
intelligence by allowing us to move
through a wider range of experiences in
the world and be able to act on those
experiences as they distinctly are and
not just as our history was
and I'm curious how how that lands with
you and your experience with
with both Ai and with meditation and
your own self-awareness the part about
sort of related this to traumas didn't
connect with me I probably just didn't
understand it
um but the part about
how you know intelligence passed a
certain level should necessarily have
some model of self-awareness
that deeply resonated with me
um because I do think you have to be
able to sort of understand your
place in the world yourself as an agent
and an actor in the world
um like if you're trying to get as smart
as possible you want to be able to make
the best predictions but what will
happen and one of the things that will
act
is you
um or your your whatever uh and and you
also want to be able to think about like
hypotheticals uh so so yeah I think
there is something there which is in the
limit intelligence and self-awareness to
me seem like they have to go together so
the other thing that I see happen in
people so that when they
you called it non-duality but when the
sense of self opens up into like a more
Universal sense of self which
you know that cognitive thing is moved
what I notice is that there's like a
movement
eventually the person then starts moving
more and more into joy that sometimes it
takes 10 years for them to just hang out
in that space and they they don't think
there's any the piece is fine and they
don't think there's anything besides
peace that's available and then they
move into Joy how has that experience
been for you the movement from
oh okay so I am this is a depersonalized
life that is I'm not taking personally I
still have my passion how is that
movement into Joy been for you this is
sort of like amusing to me um because I
think on the outside I probably seem
much less joyous than I used to I'm like
not allowed boisterous laughing person
and I used to like you know prioritize
more doing things that at least match
with my image of what a joyful thing
looked like I now am like you know
pretty happy to like sit around and not
do much or go hiker
whatever but I feel like incredibly
joyful all of the time but not all the
time but it's like it's it's rare that I
don't
um and yet I feel like no need to
express and I don't think it like comes
through talking to me or at least it
doesn't
wouldn't have fit my model of how a
joyful person acted but there's like a
quiet version of it that's really strong
and I'm really grateful for almost all
the time yeah it definitely sends a lot
of calm just talking to you
and so wrapping this back around to to
your personal experience having gone
through this journey and being wherever
you are in the journey yourself now
what happens when when you're in a
meeting and something happens and it's
some kind of Crisis everyone else
gets elevated and alert and something
happens in your system and
you find yourself that you might be
reactive what do you do then once in a
while I do react I don't sit there and
try and like make myself not react if it
is like I
someone that I work with just said like
ah like that was that was just the you
know the one time you get really heated
per year
happened a few days ago in a meeting so
like I wouldn't claim to have and
certainly not want perfect control nor
would I say I try to like pretend to be
calm and I don't feel like I'll happily
get mad if I feel like the situation
calls for it just doesn't seem to call
for it very often
but it's not like I'm like sitting there
like making this effort
to be really calm how do you experience
anger when it when it arises in you
differently than you used to I don't
think differently just less often but I
still like you know like the
physiological response in me is like
heat and energy you said appropriate I
don't find it appropriate to have the
response of anger when how does it feel
appropriate like what's the moment where
you're like this is appropriate it's
great or is it just happens it just when
it happened I don't fight it when it
happens it just doesn't happen that
often but I don't sit there thinking
like is this worth getting angry about I
just almost always feel like it's not
and then if whatever reason something is
I don't like try to stop it but but it's
rare
you know how like most people are like
somewhat not most many people are
somewhat conflict avoidant but there are
these like rare people that like love
conflict it seems like an awful way to
live but they to me but they love
conflict like they go they go searching
for it those are the people that seem to
like trigger the anger in me the most
right I'd make a distinction that I'd
make the distinction between
loving conflict and wanting conflict
they want it yes I agree yeah yeah I
love conflict because I always find like
a better solution at the end of it but
I've definitely am not interested in
creating yes yeah yeah it's it's
definitely uh the people who want to
create it that's a better phrase for it
yeah I love when people want to
recognize where there is some conflict
and bring it to the surface before it
becomes a bigger festering conflict
definitely I'm happy with that it's what
I don't like is when people want to make
fights because it's like uh it
entertains them or whatever because they
feel safe in drama somehow yeah which is
interesting because my noticing is the
people who have that tendency
they don't feel calm unless they're
contained 100 right so that it's their
anxiety and so when you meet them with
anger that is the containment that
actually calms them down so it's so
interestingly appropriate
even though it's not a conscious thing
that's occurring yeah so if you were
talking to
either yourself when you were like
hippie meditation or if you
were talking to a young brilliant kid
who's like hippie meditation
and for whatever reason because you
probably wouldn't want to convince them
but for whatever reason you were making
the argument for meditation
what would you say I mean I was gonna
say what you just caveat it which is I
can't ever imagine trying to convince
someone this is what they should go do
and I think if I had tried to convince
myself or if someone else had convinced
me before I like really was like
desperately ready
it wouldn't have worked
and so I don't think I would
try to convince anyone but if I had to I
would just be like just come try this
once with me it probably won't be your
thing you know you'll probably think of
it as a wasted hour but like we'll hang
out and do something fun afterwards
I would have done it in some like very
like you know
easy to dismiss lightweight way it's
funny when we're talking about people
you know introducing other people to the
work that we do or one of the courses we
talk about the same thing it's like if
you're trying to convince them to get
there then it's just it's no good for
anybody you or them so yeah from from
that perspective then how how do you
approach
your your company when you have found
something that's working really well for
you and you may be aware that the
Consciousness that you have is projected
throughout your company as its leader
how do you see your company evolving
either on the self-awareness front on
the individual level or organizationally
due to the work that you've been doing
yourself I think one of the things
that's remarkable open AI is we have
a very highest I've ever seen density of
talent and ability but people that have
bring extremely different
approaches to work
and have very different styles
um much more so than I would say
most companies have like most companies
tend to have like a culture and it
people can fit into that and get
promoted or not and get fired or not
hired and so you end up with people who
sort of like all
feel pretty similar and I think a thing
that is
that I love about open AI is is just how
different people are and so you know
there are some like very non-com people
and they're very effective and they sort
themselves into the right places in the
organization
um and that's probably a good compliment
one thing that I think I that I have
gotten good at
is figuring out how to sort people like
figuring out what people's inherent
strengths and abilities and styles are
and figure out how to sort them into the
right roles
I can't like articulate exactly how but
like objectively I think I I have been
much better at this than most people
running companies and it's been a great
asset for us yeah it sounds like the
more that you understand yourself the
more you can see the parts of yourself
and others that they might not see maybe
or maybe you can just like observe other
people in a really detached way because
you're not trying to do it in relation
to yourself you're not looking for
yourself you're not I think most people
do end up just promoting people that
look like themselves
and instead you can just when you when
you've got that out of the way you can
just sort of really focus on what is
this person's what makes them them what
are they going to excel at and not you
know have to relate it to yourself and
make a better decision so one of the
things particularly I notice around
people who are in any kind of search for
non-duality is that they think that
non-duality is some sort of end that
there's some sort of like place that
they're going to end up and there's
nothing left to be done and since we've
been talking about it whenever I speak
about it I always
you know point to the fact that
Evolution doesn't stop at any particular
time internally or externally so I was
just wondering what's what's the thing
now inside of yourself that you're that
you're exploring or working with or
seeing through or what's where's your
journey now
I just want to see what happens I think
we're like in the midst of this like
most exciting time yet in human history
I'm sure there'll be more exciting ones
in the future but I'm just I'm I'm so
like I just feel like tremendous
curiosity
about how all of this is going to play
out and because I sort of identify with
all of it I'm like deeply interested and
curious about all of it and
it's pretty exciting yeah I'm deeply
curious as well and I'm really excited
to see where where you and open Ai and
all the rest of us take
this existence through the rest of our
lifetimes yeah thank you guys for having
me thank you Sam yeah thank you thanks
for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign